# Rapid_Response_Team_Paper

Abstract

A local medical center uses Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) to detect sudden changes in patient conditions before they become a crisis. The team explored 3 months of data from a dataset to better predict the need for calling a medical RRT. Findings from data showed that weekdays had more medical RRTs called than weekends. The dataset however, was missing necessary vital information to help determine the cause for a RRT. The team researched more objective ways to predict when a patient has a significant health status change and proposed adopting the National Early Warning Score (NEWS), published by the Royal College of Physicians in 2007. 

The NEWS categorizes seven different vital signs from a score ranging from 0-3. From an aggregate score of the seven parameters, the scale determines necessary interventions for patients. NEWS not only finds strong correlations in predetermining behaviors in patient conditions (i.e. cardiac arrest), but can also determine the longevity of patient conditions (i.e. hospital admission, length of patient stay, and mortality rates). The team created preliminary recommendations to the local medical center on data collections and implementing an early warning score, such as NEWS.

Predicting patient outcomes based on the NEWS vital signs may not solely warrant the need of a medical RRT. Certain scenarios (i.e. cardiac arrest in elderly patients vs. in non-elderly patients) vital sign “norms” can differ between patients. Patient actions, such as facial expression or reactivity, could determine a decline in patient health status much faster than reviewing a longitudinal trend of patient vital signs. The team believes that implementing the NEWS for patients, along with additional parameters, will help determine whether a RRT is warranted. In the next steps of the project, the team plans to use machine learning to create a predictive model that can anticipate patient deterioration based on historical vital signs data and incorporate the work into a mobile application to help process necessary patient information in near-real-time.
